add ITT recipe (#2072)
pytorch/tutorials: recipes_source/profile_with_itt.rst

* Enables trace collection without recompiling your application.
* Supports applications in C/C++ and Fortran environments on Windows*, Linux*, FreeBSD*, or Android* systems.
* Supports instrumentation for tracing application code.

The advantage of ITT feature is to label time span of individual PyTorch operators, as well as customized regions, on Intel® VTune™ Profiler GUI. When users find anything abnormal, it will be very helptful to locate which operator behaved unexpected.

**Note:** The ITT API had been integrated into PyTorch since 1.13. Users don't need to invoke the original ITT C/C++ APIs, but only need to invoke the Python APIs in PyTorch. More detailed information can be found at `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`_.

How to visualize PyTorch model hierarchy in Intel® VTune™ Profiler
------------------------------------------------------------------

Two types of usage are provided in PyTorch:

1. Implicit invocation: By default, all operators registered following PyTorch operator registration mechanism will be labled by ITT feature automatically when is feature is enabled.

> 2. Explicit invocation: If customized labeling is needed, users can use APIs mentioned at `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`_ explicitly to label a desired range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Explicit invocation: If customized labeling is needed, users can use APIs mentioned in `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`__ explicitly to label a desired range.
```

> To enable this feature, codes which are expected to be labeled should be invoked under a `torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt()` scope, as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable this feature, codes which are expected to be labeled should be invoked under a `torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt()` scope. For example:
```

.. code:: python3

   with torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt():
     <codes...>

> To verify functionality, you need to start an Intel® VTune™ Profiler instance. Please check the `Intel® VTune™ Profiler user guide <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/vtune-help/top/launch.html>`_ for steps of launch Intel® VTune™ Profiler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify the functionality, you need to start an Intel® VTune™ Profiler instance. Please check the `Intel® VTune™ Profiler User Guide <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/vtune-help/top/launch.html>`__ for steps to launch Intel® VTune™ Profiler.
```

> Once you get Intel® VTune™ Profiler GUI launched, you should see a user interface as below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you get the Intel® VTune™ Profiler GUI launched, you should see a user interface as below:
```

.. figure:: /_static/img/itt_tutorial/vtune_start.png
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

> Three sample results are available in the left side navigation bar under `sample (matrix)` project. If you don't want profiling results appear in this default sample project, you can create a new project via the button `New Project...` under the blue `Configure Analysis...` button. To start a new profiling, click the blue `Configure Analysis...` button to initiate configuration of the profiling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Three sample results are available in the left side navigation bar under `sample (matrix)` project. If you do not want profiling results appear in this default sample project, you can create a new project via the button `New Project...` under the blue `Configure Analysis...` button. To start a new profiling, click the blue `Configure Analysis...` button to initiate configuration of the profiling.
```

.. figure:: /_static/img/itt_tutorial/vtune_config.png
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

> Right side of the windows is split into 3 parts: `WHERE` (top left), `WHAT` (bottom left), and `HOW` (right). With `WHERE`, you can assign a machine where you want to run the profiling on. With `WHAT`, you can set path of the application that you want to profile. To profile a PyTorch script, it is recommended to wrap all manual steps, including activate a conda environment and setting required environment variable, into a bash script, then profile this bash script. In the screenshot above, we wrapped all steps into the `launch.sh` bash script and profile `bash` with parameter to be `<path_of_launch.sh>`. In the right side `HOW`, you can choose whatever type that you would like to profile. Details can be found at `Intel® VTune™ Profiler user guide <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/vtune-help/top/analyze-performance.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The right side of the windows is split into 3 parts: `WHERE` (top left), `WHAT` (bottom left), and `HOW` (right). With `WHERE`, you can assign a machine where you want to run the profiling on. With `WHAT`, you can set the path of the application that you want to profile. To profile a PyTorch script, it is recommended to wrap all manual steps, including activate a conda environment and setting required environment variable, into a bash script, then profile this bash script. In the screenshot above, we wrapped all steps into the `launch.sh` bash script and profile `bash` with the parameter to be `<path_of_launch.sh>`. In the right side `HOW`, you can choose whatever type that you would like to profile. Details can be found at `Intel® VTune™ Profiler User Guide <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/vtune-help/top/analyze-performance.html>`__.
```

> With a successful profiling with ITT, you can open `Platform` tab of the profiling result to see labels in Intel® VTune™ Profiler timeline. All operators starting with `aten::` are operators labeled implicitly by the ITT feature in PyTorch. Labels `iteration_N` are explicitly labeled with specific APIs `torch.profiler.itt.range_push()`, `torch.profiler.itt.range_pop()` or `torch.profiler.itt.range()` scope. Please check the sample code in next section for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With a successful profiling with ITT, you can open `Platform` tab of the profiling result to see labels in the Intel® VTune™ Profiler timeline. All operators starting with `aten::` are operators labeled implicitly by the ITT feature in PyTorch. Labels `iteration_N` are explicitly labeled with specific APIs `torch.profiler.itt.range_push()`, `torch.profiler.itt.range_pop()` or `torch.profiler.itt.range()` scope. Please check the sample code in the next section for details.
```

.. figure:: /_static/img/itt_tutorial/vtune_timeline.png
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

A short sample code showcasing how to use PyTorch ITT APIs
----------------------------------------------------------

> Sample code below is the script that was used for profiling in the screenshots above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample code below is the script that was used for profiling in the screenshots above.
```

> The topology is formed by 2 operators, `Conv2d` and `Linear`. Three iterations of inference were performed. Each iteration was labled by PyTorch ITT APIs as text string `iteration_N`. Either pair of `torch.profile.itt.range_push` and `torch.profile.itt.range_pop` or `torch.profile.itt.range` scope does the customized labeling feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The topology is formed by two operators, `Conv2d` and `Linear`. Three iterations of inference were performed. Each iteration was labeled by PyTorch ITT APIs as text string `iteration_N`. Either pair of `torch.profile.itt.range_push` and `torch.profile.itt.range_pop` or `torch.profile.itt.range` scope does the customized labeling feature.
```

.. code:: python3

   # sample.py

   import torch
   import torch.nn as nn
   
   class ITTSample(nn.Module):
     def __init__(self):
       super(ITTSample, self).__init__()
       self.conv = nn.Conv2d(3, 5, 3)
       self.linear = nn.Linear(292820, 1000)
   
     def forward(self, x):
       x = self.conv(x)
       x = x.view(x.shape[0], -1)
       x = self.linear(x)
       return x
   
   def main():
     m = ITTSample()
     x = torch.rand(10, 3, 244, 244)
     with torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt():
       for i in range(3)
         # Labeling a region with pair of range_push and range_pop
         #torch.profiler.itt.range_push(f'iteration_{i}')
         #m(x)
         #torch.profiler.itt.range_pop()
   
         # Labeling a region with range scope
         with torch.profiler.itt.range(f'iteration_{i}'):
           m(x)
   
   if __name__ == '__main__':
     main()

The `launch.sh` bash script to wrap all manual steps is shown below.

.. code:: bash

   # launch.sh

   #!/bin/bash
   

>    # Retrive the directory path where contains both the sample.py and launch.sh so that this script can be invoked from any directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # Retrive the directory path where the path contains both the sample.py and launch.sh so that this script can be invoked from any directory
```

.. note::

   The ITT API had been integrated into PyTorch since 1.13. Users don't need to invoke the original ITT C/C++ APIs, but only need to invoke the Python APIs in PyTorch. More detailed information can be found at `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`__.

How to visualize PyTorch model hierarchy in Intel® VTune™ Profiler
------------------------------------------------------------------

Two types of usage are provided in PyTorch:

1. Implicit invocation: By default, all operators that are registered by following the PyTorch operator registration mechanism will be labeled by ITT feature automatically when its feature is enabled.

2. Explicit invocation: If customized labeling is needed, users can use APIs mentioned at `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`__ explicitly to label a desired range.

> To enable this feature, codes which are expected to be labeled should be invoked under a `torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt()` scope. For example:

Reviewer 2: does "this" here refers to the explicit invocation?

Author: Yes, this refers to the explicit invocation. I'll make it clear in the tutorial.

.. code:: python3

   with torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt():
     <codes-to-be-profiled...>

To verify the functionality, you need to start an Intel® VTune™ Profiler instance. Please check the `Intel® VTune™ Profiler User Guide <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/vtune-help/top/launch.html>`__ for steps to launch Intel® VTune™ Profiler.

Once you get the Intel® VTune™ Profiler GUI launched, you should see a user interface as below:

.. figure:: /_static/img/itt_tutorial/vtune_start.png
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

> Three sample results are available in the left side navigation bar under `sample (matrix)` project. If you do not want profiling results appear in this default sample project, you can create a new project via the button `New Project...` under the blue `Configure Analysis...` button. To start a new profiling, click the blue `Configure Analysis...` button to initiate configuration of the profiling.

Reviewer 2: are the three dots after "New project..." and " configure Analysis..."  intended?

> Three sample results are available in the left side navigation bar under `sample (matrix)` project. If you do not want profiling results appear in this default sample project, you can create a new project via the button `New Project...` under the blue `Configure Analysis...` button. To start a new profiling, click the blue `Configure Analysis...` button to initiate configuration of the profiling.

Author: Yes, the three dots are shown in the VTune GUI buttons, so I copied them.

.. figure:: /_static/img/itt_tutorial/vtune_config.png
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

> The right side of the windows is split into 3 parts: `WHERE` (top left), `WHAT` (bottom left), and `HOW` (right). With `WHERE`, you can assign a machine where you want to run the profiling on. With `WHAT`, you can set the path of the application that you want to profile. To profile a PyTorch script, it is recommended to wrap all manual steps, including activating a Python environment and setting required environment variables, into a bash script, then profile this bash script. In the screenshot above, we wrapped all steps into the `launch.sh` bash script and profile `bash` with the parameter to be `<path_of_launch.sh>`. In the right side `HOW`, you can choose whatever type that you would like to profile. Details can be found at `Intel® VTune™ Profiler User Guide <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/vtune-help/top/analyze-performance.html>`__.

Reviewer 2: typos : In the right side `HOW --> on the right side 'How'

Reviewer 2: can you please clarify on "  you can choose whatever type that you would like to profile."

Author: Intel VTune Profiler provides a bunch of profiling types (https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/vtune-help/top/analyze-performance.html) that users can choose from.

> The right side of the windows is split into 3 parts: `WHERE` (top left), `WHAT` (bottom left), and `HOW` (right). With `WHERE`, you can assign a machine where you want to run the profiling on. With `WHAT`, you can set the path of the application that you want to profile. To profile a PyTorch script, it is recommended to wrap all manual steps, including activating a Python environment and setting required environment variables, into a bash script, then profile this bash script. In the screenshot above, we wrapped all steps into the `launch.sh` bash script and profile `bash` with the parameter to be `<path_of_launch.sh>`. In the right side `HOW`, you can choose whatever type that you would like to profile. Details can be found at `Intel® VTune™ Profiler User Guide <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/vtune-help/top/analyze-performance.html>`__.

Author: It's the second way. Users launch VTune first, then launch the application from vtune. `WHAT` in VTune is the place to let vtune know which application to launch and profile.

With a successful profiling with ITT, you can open `Platform` tab of the profiling result to see labels in the Intel® VTune™ Profiler timeline. All operators starting with `aten::` are operators labeled implicitly by the ITT feature in PyTorch. Labels `iteration_N` are explicitly labeled with specific APIs `torch.profiler.itt.range_push()`, `torch.profiler.itt.range_pop()` or `torch.profiler.itt.range()` scope. Please check the sample code in the next section for details.

> .. figure:: /_static/img/itt_tutorial/vtune_timeline.png

Reviewer 3: Could you please elaborate a bit more on how to read this picture? What do the big brown boxes mean? Or what does someone learn once they look at this picture?

A big convolution gets broken into multiple smaller ones on different thread?

.. note::

   The ITT API had been integrated into PyTorch since 1.13. Users don't need to invoke the original ITT C/C++ APIs, but only need to invoke the Python APIs in PyTorch. More detailed information can be found at `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`__.

How to visualize PyTorch model hierarchy in Intel® VTune™ Profiler
------------------------------------------------------------------

Two types of usage are provided in PyTorch:

1. Implicit invocation: By default, all operators that are registered by following the PyTorch operator registration mechanism will be labeled by ITT feature automatically when its feature is enabled.

2. Explicit invocation: If customized labeling is needed, users can use APIs mentioned at `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`__ explicitly to label a desired range.

> To enable this feature, codes which are expected to be labeled should be invoked under a `torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt()` scope. For example:
> 
> .. code:: python3
> 
>    with torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt():
>      <codes...>
> 

Reviewer 4: English is not my native, but `codes` does not sound like a correct plural for `code`. Perhaps it can be replaced with something like `code to be profiled`
```suggestion
To enable this feature, code block, which is expected to be labeled should be invoked within  `torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt()` scope. For example:

.. code:: python3

   with torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt():
     <code-to-be-profiled...>

```

       super(ITTSample, self).__init__()
       self.conv = nn.Conv2d(3, 5, 3)
       self.linear = nn.Linear(292820, 1000)
   
     def forward(self, x):
       x = self.conv(x)
       x = x.view(x.shape[0], -1)
       x = self.linear(x)
       return x
   
   def main():
     m = ITTSample()
     x = torch.rand(10, 3, 244, 244)
     with torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt():
       for i in range(3)
         # Labeling a region with pair of range_push and range_pop
         #torch.profiler.itt.range_push(f'iteration_{i}')
         #m(x)
         #torch.profiler.itt.range_pop()
   
         # Labeling a region with range scope
         with torch.profiler.itt.range(f'iteration_{i}'):
           m(x)
   
   if __name__ == '__main__':
     main()

The `launch.sh` bash script to wrap all manual steps is shown below.

.. code:: bash

   # launch.sh

   #!/bin/bash
   
   # Retrive the directory path where the path contains both the sample.py and launch.sh so that this script can be invoked from any directory
   BASEFOLDER=$( cd -- "$( dirname -- "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" )" &> /dev/null && pwd )
   source ~/miniconda3/bin/activate
   conda activate ipex_py38
   cd ${BASEFOLDER}

>    python sample.py

Reviewer 4: Not sure how this section is specific to ITT? User does not need to install (nor use) conda to benefit from ITT feature. Nor should it be bound to python-3.8 , as environment name suggests. And since example does not have any data dependencies, changing working directory to base folder is superfluous as well, isn't it?

But paragraph about ITT filename and folder where it will be generated are probably relevant, isn't it?

Author: To use VTune to profile a python script, it is always recommended to wrap the execution of the python script into a bash script. Because executing a python script requires the configuration of a Python environment, which is not always there by default. Also, launching the script from vtune could be done in a directory that doesn't have the python script, so it is better to switch the active directory into the desired folder inside the bash script execution.

I restated the description to make it more descriptive and related to vtune. Also I changed the specific python version and conda distribution into a generic description. Does the updated content below look good to you?
```
The `launch.sh` bash script, mentioned in the Intel® VTune™ Profiler GUI screenshot, to wrap all manual steps is shown below.

.. code:: bash

   # launch.sh

   #!/bin/bash

   # Retrive the directory path where the path contains both the sample.py and launch.sh so that this bash script can be invoked from any directory
   BASEFOLDER=$( cd -- "$( dirname -- "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" )" &> /dev/null && pwd )
   <Activate a Python environment>
   cd ${BASEFOLDER}
   python sample.py
```

.. note::

   The ITT API had been integrated into PyTorch since 1.13. Users don't need to invoke the original ITT C/C++ APIs, but only need to invoke the Python APIs in PyTorch. More detailed information can be found at `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`__.

How to visualize PyTorch model hierarchy in Intel® VTune™ Profiler
------------------------------------------------------------------

Two types of usage are provided in PyTorch:

1. Implicit invocation: By default, all operators that are registered by following the PyTorch operator registration mechanism will be labeled by ITT feature automatically when its feature is enabled.

2. Explicit invocation: If customized labeling is needed, users can use APIs mentioned at `PyTorch Docs <https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/profiler.html#intel-instrumentation-and-tracing-technology-apis>`__ explicitly to label a desired range.

> To enable explicit invocation, codes which are expected to be labeled should be invoked under a `torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt()` scope. For example:

Reviewer 4: You still have `codes` here

Again, English is not my native, but please compare results of https://www.bing.com/search?q=codes vs https://www.bing.com/search?q=code

Author: Oh, your concern is on the plural. I'm not a native speaker as well. I'll change it to `code` anyway.

.. figure:: /_static/img/itt_tutorial/vtune_timeline.png
   :width: 100%
   :align: center

The timeline shows the main thread as a `python` thread on the top, and individual OpenMP threads below. Labeled PyTorch operators and customized regions are shown in the main thread row. All operators starting with `aten::` are operators labeled implicitly by the ITT feature in PyTorch. Labels `iteration_N` are explicitly labeled with specific APIs `torch.profiler.itt.range_push()`, `torch.profiler.itt.range_pop()` or `torch.profiler.itt.range()` scope. Please check the sample code in the next section for details.

.. note::

   Red boxes marked with `convolution` and `reorder` are labeled from Intel® oneAPI Deep Neural Network Library (oneDNN).

As illustrated on the right side navigation bar, brown portions in the timeline rows show CPU usage of individual threads. The percerntage of height of a thread row that the brown portion occupies at a timestamp aligns with that of the CPU usage in that thread at that timestamp. Thus, it is intuitive from this timeline to understand the followings:

> 1. How well CPU cores are utlized on each thread.

Reviewer 5: @jingxu10, utlized -> utilized ?

Author: done

.. code:: python3

   # sample.py

   import torch
   import torch.nn as nn
   
   class ITTSample(nn.Module):
     def __init__(self):
       super(ITTSample, self).__init__()
       self.conv = nn.Conv2d(3, 5, 3)
       self.linear = nn.Linear(292820, 1000)
   
     def forward(self, x):
       x = self.conv(x)
       x = x.view(x.shape[0], -1)
       x = self.linear(x)
       return x
   
   def main():
     m = ITTSample()
     x = torch.rand(10, 3, 244, 244)
     with torch.autograd.profiler.emit_itt():
       for i in range(3)
         # Labeling a region with pair of range_push and range_pop
         #torch.profiler.itt.range_push(f'iteration_{i}')
         #m(x)
         #torch.profiler.itt.range_pop()
   
         # Labeling a region with range scope
         with torch.profiler.itt.range(f'iteration_{i}'):
           m(x)
   
   if __name__ == '__main__':
     main()

The `launch.sh` bash script, mentioned in the Intel® VTune™ Profiler GUI screenshot, to wrap all manual steps is shown below.

.. code:: bash

   # launch.sh

   #!/bin/bash
   

>    # Retrive the directory path where the path contains both the sample.py and launch.sh so that this bash script can be invoked from any directory

Reviewer 6: @jingxu10 is it `Retrieve the directory path` here? Might be a typo.

Author: Good catch. Corrected.
